Today I will be making dahi baingan.
Sauteed eggplant with yogurt.
This classic eggplant dish is very sophisticated but very simple to make.
It is always amazing to see
how a few simple ingredients can make such a satisfying dish.
My husband who doesn’t like eggplant
fell in love with this dish.
Dahi baingan is simply delicious.
This can be served with plain rice or roti.
This recipe will serve 4.
To make dahi baingan we will need:
1 eggplant cut into 1/4 inch thick pieces.
And that will makes about 4 cups.
3 tablespoons oil
1/2 teaspoon of cumin seed (jeera)
1/8 teaspoon of asafoetida (hing)
2 teaspoons of besan (gram flour)
1 cup yogurt (curd)
1 teaspoon crushed saunf (fennel seed)
2 teaspoons coriander powder
1 teaspoon thinly sliced ginger
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon red chili powder.
You can adjust to your taste.
1/4 teaspoon of turmeric (haldi)
About 1/4 cup of chopped cilantro
I am ready to make dahi baingan.
I am using the flat pan.
Heat is on, medium.
So I will add the oil.
Oil should be moderately hot
before I will add the cumin seed.
So oil should be hot enough.
So when I put the cumin seeds they should
crack right away.
Asafoetida
Ginger
Just stir for few seconds.
And add the eggplants.
And just stir it one time.
Reduce the heat to low medium.
And now sprinkle the salt.
And don't mix it, just leave it.
Cover the pan.
And let it cook for about 3 minutes before we will check.
So while eggplants are cooking
we will mix the yogurt
and add the besan
and cilantro.
And mix it well.
And yogurt is looking thick.
So I am going to just add couple of spoons of water.
And just keep this aside.
So this has been about 3 minutes.
So let's check it.
I did open one time in between just to make sure they don't burn.
And now let's turn them over.
And they have nice color.
And I wanted to have the eggplant some roasted color.
So just cover for another
about 1.5 minutes.
So this has been about a minute.
Let's check it again.
Turn it.
Eggplant looks they are cooked very soft and tender.
So I am going to add the spices.
Coriander powder
Red chilli powder
Fennel seed
And turmeric.
Just mix it well.
Just make sure all the eggplants have coated with
these spices really well.
And they are looking really reallly nice.
So it's time to add the yougurt.
I have mixed.
I have added some besan in the yogurt.
That prevents yogurt to break.
This looks really really good.
So just now let it cook.
After it comes to boil.
Then we should let it cook for another 2 minutes.
Dahi baingan are looking good.
So they are ready.
So turn off the heat.
They have a very nice aroma of fennel seed.
So looks like dahi baingan is ready to serve.
Dahi baingan is looking fantastic.
Today I will be serving this with paratha.
Enjoy.
Thank you.
Till we meet again, check out more recipes on manjulaskitchen.com.
Also look for my ebook on Amazon.
'Best of Indian vegetarian cooking'.
Thank you.